#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
INF3490 - Assignment 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Torgeir Hoffmann / twhoffma@uio.no
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
How to run
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In assigment folder: 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
python3 oblig1.py
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Exhaustive Search
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This took just shy of 18.4s to run for 10 cities.
 Given that the number of solutions to try is 24!, one can assume that since
 the search algorithm is not in any way optimized with Djikstra or anything
 else and it is O(n) at best so rough estimated time would be (in years):
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\frac{24!}{10!}\times\frac{18.4}{60\times60\times24\times365}\approx9,75e+10
\]

\end_inset

 Given the vast amount of solutions to attempt, nothing would actually help
 all that much in terms of the vast number of potential solutions to search.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Hill Climbing
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using a total of 1000 switches for each run and 20 initial routes, I received
 the following results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Genetic Algorithm
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It was hard to say what was the right parameters to be passed here.
 What I was most concened about in the selection process was premature convergen
ce, but given the problem it would be hard to argue that even if two solutions
 had the same high fitness, that they wouldn't be very different.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Generations: 7
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Population: 10,100,1000
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Selection: Rank-based Selection Linear Ranking.
 Even for the simplest fitness function, 1/distance, the standard deviation
 can be huge.
 This will lead to a highly fluctuating number of parents each generation.
 Also, given that we need two parents for each breeding, implies extra care.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Crossover: Mirror of a random point in each parent, as a normal cross-over
 would result in mostly non-functioning solutions.
 100% crossover probability.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Mutation: Switch to random cities in each child.
 100% mutation probability.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
